Cm/carnival activity (#789)
Ada-Developers-Academy/textbook-curriculum: 00-programming-fundamentals/exercises/merge-conflict-remote.md

## Learning Goals

The goal of this activity is to give you exposure to the process of resolving merge conflicts. Because merge conflicts are a natural part of any collaborative development effort, this is an important skill to have as a developer.

With this activity you will be able to encounter and resolve merge conflicts in a controlled scenario where the correct resolution of all merge conflicts is clear.

## Instructions

### Baseline Setup

Before we can start putting the recipe together we need to make sure that everyone in your group is working from the same starting point and can effectively contribute to the recipe building effort.

1. **Split into groups**: The class will be divided into groups using the breakout sections feature of Zoom, these assignments are random.
   1. Breakout Room 1:  Aardvark

>    2. Breakout Room 2:  Tarsier

Reviewer: I know some people have strong opinions about using 1s for all numbered lists. But I assume this was an intentional choice for some particular reason.

   3. Breakout Room 2:  Gecko

>    4. Breakout Room 2:  Sloth

Author: I'd expected that we would hold a Zoom call with the entire cohort and we'll run breakout rooms to break the groups up into groups that way.  We're not doing separate zoom calls per roundtable.  

We could also do separate roundtables with each group.

   5. Breakout Room 2:  Lionfish
   6. Breakout Room 2:  Pangolin
   7. Breakout Room 2:  Rhino
   8. Breakout Room 2:  Curassow

> 2. **Fork the activity repo**: One person in your group should fork the carnival-recipes repo and then add everyone else as a collaborator.

Reviewer: I don't see a link to the repo anywhere. Should we add it here?

Author: Since we use could use these instructions next cohort is the worst occurs, then I figured we would put the link in the calendar.

3. **Clone the forked repo**: Everyone else in your group should clone the forked repository.
4. **Find your recipe scrap**: Each group is assigned six recipe scraps that should all be part of the same recipe. You can split these scraps up amongst your group however you wish. The scraps assigned to each group are listed in the carnival-recipes repo. If your group has fewer than six people someone may need to take multiple scraps.
5. **Add your recipe scrap**: Copy the contents of your recipe scrap into the recipe file and then add and commit your changes to the recipe file. After completing this step each person in your group should have **different** content within the recipe file in their local repository.

**Do not** push your changes to GitHub yet! If you're finished early with this step help your groupmates.

### Building the recipe

Once everyone in your group has completed the baseline setup instructions above you're ready to start building the recipe together.

#### General advice

There are a few things to look out for when working through this activity:

> - If you're still unsure about what a merge conflict is, or how to resolve one please review the [Merge Conflicts curriculum](https://github.com/Ada-Developers-Academy/textbook-curriculum/blob/master/00-programming-fundamentals/git-merge-conflicts.md).

Reviewer: I'm trying to remember if this is a reading we've already assigned them. If not, we should probably assign it to them the day before this activity.
Even if we have, it might be worth putting a thing in the hw the day before about reviewing this reading.

Author: It's in the calendar

Reviewer: Oh, ok.

> - You can review the [slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15OFyyoNJevzk7IpdZCP6VwMLju0MVS2pv0qeETLOa6Q/edit?usp=sharing) and [example walkthrough video](https://adaacademy.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=ec7dbf60-e59b-4317-a4a5-abbe002eb7ea) if you are unsure about how to complete the activity.

Reviewer: I appreciate you making an example video as well. I'm a little confused about how we expect they'd utilize this.
I wonder if we should either (1) assign this as a video to watch before the activity or (2) suggest that if they get stuck, one of the students do a screen share so that they can all watch the video together? But also the intention is that 2 or 3 instructors will be popping between the breakout rooms to support, right? If so, that feels to me like probably a more effective way to clarify things than asking the whole group to stop and watch a video...so I'm less sold on option 2. 
And also not sure that option 1 is necessary either. 
But curious for other thoughts

Author: If they get confused they can refer to the video, I'm not sure it's needed, but included it to parallel the original assignment which included it.

Reviewer: I'm just hesitant to include something like a video in this group context because I fear it could cause confusion. ("Are we all supposed to watch this right now? Have we seen this video before? Should we all watch it separately and come back together?")
Would you be up for just taking it out and counting on the rotating instructors to provide guidance instead of the video?

- The end result should be a real, usable recipe. The original recipe files were all complete works from various recipe websites online.
- If you find that the result of one of your merges is missing critical ingredients or any numbered steps, you should go back and double check that you didn't lose any lines while resolving a merge conflict.
- Your recipe scraps may have duplicate lines. We've added these in to more accurately portray the full range of potential merge conflicts. **Important**: you should get rid of any duplicate lines while merging.
- There's no "right" way to do this activity, all of the strategies listed below are valid ways to build the recipe file.
- Have fun!

> #### Recipe building process

Reviewer: To be honest, I find the nested list of lists of lists disorienting and hard to follow. 
I am inclined to suggest we just reuse the instructions from the [original README](https://github.com/Ada-Developers-Academy/textbook-curriculum/blob/master/00-programming-fundamentals/exercises/merge-conflict.md) and count on the instructors' support to give further clarity.

Author: The original doesn't use branches.

Because each member of your group now has a different version of the recipe file in their local repository, building the complete recipe by merging those versions together will result in merge conflicts. To handle those merge conflicts sensibly your group should use the following process to construct the final recipe file:

> 1. Split your group into two teams of two or three.

Reviewer: Just thought the original wording made it sound like the students needed to make a choice about group size, which felt a little confusing to me.
```suggestion
1. Split your group into two teams of three. (There may be a group of two if your group only has 5 people.)
```

Reviewer: This does make me realize we may need a specific strategy for what to do about the one group of 5 that will exist.
Also makes me realize it will be especially helpful with this activity if we know ahead of time whether anyone will be absent.

2. Each person on a team will create a branch with `git checkout -b BRANCH-NAME`, selecting their own branch name based off the recipe scrap they have, and commit the changes they have made to the recipe.
3. Each team member will push their changes up to github with `git push origin BRANCH-NAME`.
4. Both teams then will use the _round robin_ strategy separately.

>     - Each team member will open a **pull request** trying to merge their branch on github into `master`.  **Be very careful to make the PR against your repository and NOT ada Gold.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Each team member will open a **pull request** trying to merge their branch on github into `master`.  **Be very careful to make the PR against your forked repository and NOT AdaGold.**
```

    - If there is a report of a merge conflict they will need to:

>      - Pull the current state of master into their branch with `git pull origin master`
>      - Resolve the merge conflicts and commit the result
>      - Push the result up to git hub with `git push origin BRANCH-NAME`
>      - Then attempt to merge their pull request.  If new changes have happened on master they may have to repeat step 1 above. 

Reviewer: It reads like these should be nested within the above bullet. I'm not sure if adding 2 spaces will fix it or not.
```suggestion
       - Pull the current state of master into their branch with `git pull origin master`
       - Resolve the merge conflicts and commit the result
       - Push the result up to git hub with `git push origin BRANCH-NAME`
       - Then attempt to merge their pull request.  If new changes have happened on master they may have to repeat step 1 above. 
```

Before we can start putting the recipe together we need to make sure that everyone in your group is working from the same starting point and can effectively contribute to the recipe building effort.

1. **Split into groups**: The class will be divided into groups using the breakout sections feature of Zoom, these assignments are random.
   - Breakout Room 1:  Aardvark
   - Breakout Room 2:  Tarsier

>    - Breakout Room 2:  Gecko
>    - Breakout Room 2:  Sloth
>    - Breakout Room 2:  Lionfish
>    - Breakout Room 2:  Pangolin
>    - Breakout Room 2:  Rhino
>    - Breakout Room 2:  Curassow

Reviewer: Is this what you intended here?
```suggestion
   - Breakout Room 3:  Gecko
   - Breakout Room 4:  Sloth
   - Breakout Room 5:  Lionfish
   - Breakout Room 6:  Pangolin
   - Breakout Room 7:  Rhino
   - Breakout Room 8:  Curassow
```
